Pesta analysis is a tool
that serves us to do an analysis
or an external diagnosis of the
environment in which the company
moves.
It is a very useful tool to identify
what are the political,
economic, social and technological
factors that affect in one
way or another that we cannot
control but that generate
a threat or an opportunity.
As we see, Pest is an acronym for
the four possible political,
economic, social and technological factors.
And it is necessary to do an analysis
from this perspective, from this
holistic perspective and
not leave any of them because there
are more factors that affect a
company than they first seem.
Today we will give you examples that
will help you to see it.
By the way, sometimes PEST
is considered or used as the
acronym PEST and legal factors
and environmental factors
are incorporated.
We will use PEST which is
also the most common formula.
Let us start.
The illegal politicians.
We have to analyze how the political
and illegal situation affects
the company.
It affects in many ways.
They affect laws, affect
taxes, accept trade policies,
for example protectionism,
tariffs, the VAT you have
to pay in each of the
countries, etc.
The restrictions you put, the requirements
that ask you to sell in one
country or another, for example.
A very clear example of the impact
it has, the huge impact it has
on the political and legal situation
in companies is the legal
problems that companies like
Uber or like Blablacar or like
Airbnb are facing, for example.
They are platforms that unite individuals
with a disruptive model
with respect to the traditional model.
And that is making a lot of noise
and that has many collectives against.
It is not yet known how the
legislation will affect it, how
it will affect it in each of
the markets in which it is.
In many cases, it has to stop
operating.
That is to say, to realize
the huge impact that the P of
political factors has on business
of this type.
There are, for example, more
examples, there are that are
directly in sectors that are regulated.
The influence of political
factors is huge.
Competitors are
now protected.
There can be no more competitors,
so the entry barriers are
very high and the profitability
too.
Imagine that this changes.
Imagine that regulation is flexible
and sectors, such as pharmacies
in Spain, are liberalized
and anyone can open
a pharmacy.
This would increase competition
and therefore price war.
The profitability in the sector
would decrease considerably.
More examples of how political
factors affect.
In some places there is pure
political insecurity.
There have been cases of companies,
for example, Repsol, a Spanish
company in Argentina, expropriated
the IPF subsidiary.
These are political decisions
that have a huge impact, in this
case on Repsol’s result account.
We go with economic factors.
Economic factors or politicians
in many cases may seem
to overlap.
Let us see some example.
We are talking about exchange rates.
You have a relationship with Russia.
Your comparisons are Russian.
Imagine it.
The ruble, as it did
in 2016, is now falling.
So your comparisons have lost a lot
of purchasing power and your product
is suddenly much more expensive
for them.
Imagine the effect that has.
There are or sectors that are heavily
influenced, for example,
by interest rates.
The real estate sector is very clear.
The real estate sector is the
mortgage sector.
If interest times are lower,
a lot more people can access
mortgages or can access
the purchase of a home.
The price of housing
is falling.
And vice versa, if interest
rates rise, mortgages are more expensive
for the general population.
The real estate market
is slowing down.
Let’s look at social factors.
These are factors that
are related to the lifestyle, to the
tastes, to the patterns of consumption.
with what is happening in society.
Changes are constantly occurring
in society that create
opportunities or risks for
companies.
Imagine or think about the huge
billionaire opportunity that is being
created due, which is being
generated today, because the middle
class in China is growing
enormously.
There was no middle class in
China until a few years ago.
And now there are hundreds of millions
of people with an equal purchasing
power to the West, who demand
domestic or foreign products,
etc.
It is a huge opportunity.
There is also a
change in consumption
habits.
And this is just an example.
Every day, more people are concerned
about healthy eating, healthy
living, healthy life,
and sports.
For some companies, this can
be a huge opportunity.
Companies focused on organic
products, healthy
products, products
or services related to
sports, gym chains, etc.
For others, it is a threat.
Think of prepared and calorie-
based and unhealthy meals
companies that will have to adapt
to this type of habit changes,
social changes.
I want you to be aware that the
factors affecting companies
can be very diverse.
One example is the terrorist threat.
There are countries that have suffered
more than others the threat of
terrorist attacks and their tourism,
the demand for foreign tourists
has been seen very decreased.
This has led to the turists
going to other countries.
In any case, a well-made analysis
of a hotel company, for
example, who is thinking about
building a hotel in a tourist
area should take into account
this type of threats.
Let us go to the technological factors.
In recent years, technology has
changed the world.
Above all, the most obvious is digital
technology, the eruption of the Internet.
Many sectors have changed.
For some it has been an opportunity,
they have already managed to create
big companies around new technologies
and for others it has been a wave
that has dragged them, has overcome
them, has been a threat.
There are thousands of examples and today
it is not a matter of going into details,
but for example Airbnb.
Airbnb has revolutionized the tourist
accommodation industry with
its platform and the Internet.
However, there are other companies,
for example, the hotel
chains, which this revolution
has negatively affected.
For some it is an
opportunity, for others
it is a threat.
The eruption of electric cars.
Tesla was the first, the pioneer
to take advantage of it.
It’s the one that has grown the most
in this and has built a
superpowerful brand that probably
within a few years competes with
large groups thanks to this new
technology.
Another key technological factor
in recent years has been the
arrival of mobile technology.
This is an example of a company
called Tulotero, which I participate
as a partner, which is revolutionizing
the lottery market.
Traditionally, the lottery was
purchased at a point of sale.
Now you can buy it on the
mobile.
This is a huge threat to many
traditional players within
the sector.
And one case of failure that
is always cited in business
schools is Kodak.
Kodak was the leader in camera
and in revealed before the arrival
of digital photography.
But he could not anticipate this move.
He could not convert.
And there were other players,
their competitors who ravaged the
market and left him absolutely out.
And despite having an
absolute dominance position,
being the market leader, he
had the resources to upgrade
and take advantage of
that opportunity.
I will give you a last example
because I was curious to see
how the factors affecting
a company are very, very varied.
And in this case it is related
to the environment.
Well, I have a friend who has
a family company with a very
high turnover that manufactures,
among other things, fans.
This summer in Spain,
the temperatures
have been high.
And this has led to the sales
of fans throughout the supermarket,
large distribution, online,
etc., even on Amazon, have
been shot.
This has had a very, very positive
effect on the sales of this company
I am talking about.
It is an example for you to
see that even factors like
climate change affect enormously.
Finally, I leave you this picture.
I recommend that when you
have to do a PEST analysis do
it in a structured way.
Use a table in which you identify
what are the political,
economic, social and technological
factors that affect
the company you are studying.
Also, classify these factors
according to their impact.
Some will have a very high impact, others will
have a medium and others will have a low impact.
Depending on the company, depending
on the sector and depending
on the countries in which you
are operating.
For example, in the case of Uber or
Airbnb or revolutionary
models of this type that are within
a legal limit, because the political
factor has a key impact.
So much so that, in some cases,
you will make investments to enter
countries that you will later
even have to leave or have to
spend a lot of money on lawyers.
Subscribe to the channel!